As mentioned at the end of the last lecture I want to start by building our first service here a service
which takes over does logging task here.
So a service where we can log data.
Now how do we create a new service How does a service look like an angler creating a super simple.
First we have to choose a fitting place.
Now since this service will do some generic task I will place it in the app folder.
You could also create a shared subfolder there.
I will again place it right in the app main folder and I will simply name it logging and the file name
should be logging DOD service Datti has to follow this convention of being pretty clear about what's
in a file.
So here this file will hold a service so that's While name ID like this.
There I will export a typescript class and I will name this class logging service to again to be explicit
about what this class does.
Now a component becomes a component because we attached is at component decorator.
A directive becomes a directive because we attach and directive.
You could think that we now simply add at service right.
But we don't do that a service is just the normal type of class like this.
This can already be used as a service.
So here we could create a helper Meffert locked to console and simply pass the message.
But since we know that we simply want you locked change of account status here I will simply say log.
Status change like this and take the new status which will be a string as an argument.
Here I can then simply copy the code.
I do have in one of my components right now this console lock code to your and copied into my logging
service year of course account status now is just status here.
This argument we're getting.
So with that remove the Colette's semi-colon.
With that a centralized disk code.
Now we need to use the service in our other components.
So everywhere where we console log.
Now you could think that we simply use it by importing it at the top of our file.
So here we could import the logging service from.
And now let's move up to the main folder.
And then here from the logging service TS file and then we could simply create our service like this
new logging servers and on our service you could call log status change and past into account status.
And actually if I get rid of this code here
this will work let it recompile.
And if I now create a new service here you see I do log it to the console.
So this would work and still this is wrong this is not and this is super important this is not how you
use a service in angular.
The reason for it is we'll become more clear of throughout this module.
But generally angular provides a much better way of getting access to your services and therefore you
should not create the instances manually.
So let's get rid of that import and of that instantiation and let's learn in the next video which tool
angel or office us to get access to our services.